"pone.0081057.g006.png","A. Molecular phylogenetic tree of KLKs and other putative KLK-like proteins depicted by the maximum likelihood method. In teleosts, KLK13 (highlighted in blue) is annotated but these proteins lack a functional trypsin domain and forms a subclade that is distantly related to the main KLK subclade. Some uncharacterized trypsins with conserved synteny relationship in medaka were identified (highlighted in red and corresponded to the synteny graph in Figure 6C) and these proteins are clustered closely to the KLK subclade of tetrapods. The tree is unrooted. Percentage identity matrixes of some representative species are bracketed in green. Numbers on the branches are the bootstrap values (>50%) of 100 replicates. Scale bar represents 20% amino acid substitution.B. Amino acid alignment among human KLK1 and teleost KLK13. The catalytic triads of trypsin domain are underlined and the crucial amino acids are highlighted. The catalytic triads are not conserved in teleost KLK13, which probably indicates that they are not functional trypsins and could be pseudogenes. C. Synteny of the genomic regions containing klks between human, medaka, tilapia, and Tetraodon. In this map, human klk1-klk15 are shortened to one klk-block as they were generated by tandem duplications. The conserved synteny regions on medaka chromosome 8 and 19 are apparently duplicated chromosomes from the 3R. Uncharacterized proteins (named with Ensembl number identifiers) with trypsin domain were identified among the conserved synteny regions in medaka genome and these klk-like genes were shaded. Among these uncharacterized trypsins, ENSORLG00000000283, ENSORLG00000001213, and ENSORLG00000006351 (highlighted in red and corresponded to the phylogenetic tree in Figure 6A) form a subclade that is closely related to the tetrapod KLK subclade. Numbers in green indicate the position of the genes (in Mb) on the chromosomes or contigs. The chromosomal directions of the genes are indicated by arrows. Connecting lines between chromosomes indicate orthologous genes. A dashed-line is used for connecting KLK13 (highlighted in blue) as it possesses mutated functional domains."
