Schematic representation of Arabidopsis OEP9 and amino acid alignment and phylogenetic tree of OEP9 and predicted homologues.(a) Schematic illustration of OEP9. Numbers denote the relative position of specific amino acid residues including those that delineate the protein's single putative TMD (shaded grey, residues 36–54) and hydrophilic C-terminal sequence (CTS) (residues 55–86). Putative intrinsically disordered segments (residues 1–18 and 61–86) are indicated with stippled lines. Shown also is the deduced polypeptide sequence of OEP9's ‘NTC’ domain, including the 20 amino acid residues immediately upstream (N terminal) of the TMD, putative TMD (underlined), and CTS. Italicized and bolded amino acid residues in the CTS are those that are immunorecognized by a polyclonal antibody raised against this (synthetic) peptide sequence (see ‘Materials and Methods’ for details). (b) Multiple sequence alignment of the deduced amino acid sequences of OEP9 (At1g16000) (NCBI Accession No. NP_563987) and predicted homologues from Arabidopsis (At1g80890), Brassica (Bn), tobacco (Nt), cotton (Gh), rice (Os), maize (Zm) and moss (Pp). Identical amino acids in each protein are indicated by asterisks, and strongly similar residues are indicated by colons. Boxed are the single putative TMD in these proteins. (c) Dendogram showing the evolutionary relationship of OEP9, At1g80890 and predicted (protein) homologues from Brassica rapa (Br), Brassica napus (Bn), Lactuca saligna (Ls), Cichorium intybus (Ci), Helianthus annuus (Ha), Physcomitrella patens (Pp), Vitis vinifera (Vv), Antirrhinum majus (Am), Solanum tuberosum (St); Solanum lycoersicum (Sl), Nicotiana benthamiana (Nb), Nicotiana tabacum (Nt), Zea mays (Zm), Saccharum officinarum (So), Oryza sativa (Os), Gossypium arboreum (Ga), Gossypium hirsutum (Gh), Cyamopsis tetragonoloba (Ct), Lotus japonicus (Lj), Phaseolus coccineus (Pc), Citrus clementina (Cc), and Citrus sinensis (Cs). The branch lengths of the tree are proportional to the divergence."
