Maximum parsimony trees of mouse and human mtDNA sequences. (A) Maximum parsimony tree of mtDNA entire genomes of different mouse strains, primary cell cultures and cell lines. The phylogenetic skeleton of the different mouse strains was modified from Goios et al. (2007). The violet squares at the bottom refer to the FVB/NJ strain samples analyzed in the present study, whereas the green squares indicate the cell lines (sample ID is as in Table 1). Note that the C57BL/6J strain was used as the reference strain. Nucleotide changes along the branches are indicated with respect to the reference strain (C57BL/6J). All mutations are transitions unless a suffix specifies a transversion (A, C, G, T), an insertion (+), a deletion (d), a synonymous substitution (s), a mutational change in tRNA (-t), or amino acid replacements (indicated in round brackets). Recurrent mutational events are underlined. (B) Maximum parsimony tree of human mtDNA gliomas. The blue rectangles indicate the entire mtDNA genomes analyzed in the present study, whereas the violet rectangles are the genomes of healthy individuals phylogenetically to the gliomas analyzed in the present study (GenBank accession numbers are indicated). The mutations are displayed along the branches (mutations of the control region in blue script); the nomenclature is relative to the rCRS [24]. Haplogroups defined here for the first time are indicated in green rectangles. All mutations are transitions unless a suffix specifies a transversion (A, C, G, T), a deletion (d), an insertion (+), a synonymous substitution (s), a mutational change in tRNA (-t), a mutational change in rRNA (-r), or amino acid replacements (indicated in round brackets). Recurrent mutational events are underlined, whereas @ indicates back mutations. Several mutational hotspot variants were not considered for the phylogenetic reconstruction and therefore were eliminated from the tree; these included variants at the homopolymeric tracks around position 310, the microsatellite at m.523–524 (aka m.522–523), the transversions m.16182A>C, m.16183A>C, m.16193+1C(C) and m.16519T>C, and length or point heteroplasmies. The codes of the samples are indicated in blue rectangles at the terminal branches of the phylogeny. Note that sample DQ156208 [43] has an unusual number of reversions that are probably due to documentation or sequencing errors [44]."
