"pone.0008505.g003.png","Zinc finger sequences are homogenized within genes and divergent between genes.Panel A. Self dot plot of all tandem 21 amino acid zinc fingers from PRDM9 orthologs in all 15 species with 5 or more zinc fingers. Dot shading corresponds to sequence similarity using the BLOSUM62 matrix, scaled so that the lowest scoring match is white and the highest scoring is black. Lines separate fingers from each species. Sequences are arranged by their taxonomic name and within each gene fingers are in order by position (N-terminal zinc finger first). Panel B. The same PRDM9 fingers with their order randomized, showing that the appearance of self-similarity in panel A is significant. Multiple randomizations were inspected; this one is typical. Panel C. A maximum-likelihood tree of the PRDM orthologs based on the protein encoded by their entire ZF encoding exon. The protein tree approximates the species phylogenetic tree, supporting orthology of the PRDM9 genes. Panel D. Self dot plot of all 21 amino acid zinc fingers from 13 ZNF773 orthologs (representative of other KRAB zinc finger genes, data not shown). All species except one have 9 zinc fingers (the additional divergent zinc finger in armadillo (species 4) is N-terminal and not tandem with the 9 orthologous fingers). Each zinc finger is closely related to its orthologous fingers from the other species and divergent from the other zinc fingers in the same gene. The species in figure order are cow (species 1), dog (species 2), marmoset (etc.), armadillo, horse, cat, human, macaque, rabbit, baboon, orangutan, chimpanzee, and ground squirrel. Because many of the PRDM9 genes come from low-coverage assemblies it is difficult to find a representative zinc finger gene from all of the same species as shown in panel A. The species are domestic cow (Bos taurus), common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), domestic dog (Canis familiaris), guinea pig (Cavia porcellus), armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus), lesser tenrec (Echinops telfairi), domestic horse (Equus cabalus), domestic cat (Felis catus), human (Homo sapiens), African elephant (Loxodonta africana), Rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), mouse lemur (Otolemur garnettii), domestic mouse (Mus musculus), domestic rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus), Hamadryas baboon (Papio hamadryas), Sumatran orangutan (Pongo pygmaeus abelii), chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), flying fox bat (Pteropus vampyrus), Norway rat (Rattus norvegicus), thirteen-lined ground squirrel (Spermophilus tridecemlineatus), and bottlenose dolphin (Tursiops truncatus)."
