Hypothesis of parallel genetic evolution at the Tb1 locus for the adaptation of vegetative branching during maize and pearl millet domestication. A. The phylogenetic tree shows that Zea mays and Pennisetum glaucum are two wild grasses from the Panicoid sub-family that separated 30 million years ago (dotted lines, scale not respected), wild Z.mays (teosinte) growing in America and wild P.glaucum in Africa. About 9,000–4,000 years ago, they were independently domesticated into maize and pearl millet, respectively. Pictures below the tree illustrate the parallel morphological evolution of both wild progenitors during their domestication, in particular the reduction of tillering and branching. Z.mays and P.glaucum inherited from their most recent common ancestor the orthologous copies ZmTb1 and PgTb1of the developmental gene Tb1 (represented by a hatched box). It was previously shown that ZmTb1 has been targeted by human selection for the reduction of maize branching during domestication. We ask whether PgTb1 was subjected to parallel evolutionary processes for the similar adaptation of branching during the domestication of pearl millet. B. Distribution of the number of tillers and branches in domesticated pearl millet, wild P.glaucum and weedy plants grown in the same location in south Niger. The cultivated field and the wild population were in parapatric situation. Plants present in the field were classified as domestic or as weedy according to farmer's classification. The ability of weedy pearl millets to shed their seeds spontaneously at the maturity stage is one of the main factors used by farmers to recognize them [13]. Histograms show that domestication was associated with a reduction of vegetative branching. These data were obtained on more than 200 plants for the wild and the domestic pearl millets repectively, and more than 150 plants for weedy phenotypes. C. Tillering in young P.glaucum seedlings. At 4 weeks after germination, tillers are visible in wild P.glaucum (left) but not in the Souna domesticated landrace (right). Close-ups after dissection reveal that axillary meristems have developed into an emergent tiller in the wild plant (arrow) but remain dormant as buds with 1 or 2 leaves (arrow) or undeveloped meristems (box) in the cultivated landrace."
