Avian phylogenic tree and schematic drawings of vocal learner and non-learner brains. (A) Avian phylogenic tree. Shown are the branches for 27 major orders and one suborder (suboscines), highlighting 1–2 species each, based on the proposal of Hackett et al 2008 [64]. Bold text, vocal learners. Black nodes, proposed independent gains of vocal learning. White node, an alternative possibility where there was two independent gains of vocal learning (hummingbirds and the common ancestor of parrots and songbirds), then lost in suboscine songbirds. (B) Schematic sagittal drawing of example vocal learner (songbird and human) and non-learner (quail and macaque) brains. Black lines, song motor pathway. White lines, pallial-basal-ganglia song pathway. Dashed lines, connections between the two pathways. Red line, direct projection from forebrain to brainstem vocal motor neurons found in vocal learners. Connections in humans are predicted based on known motor pathways in mammals, except the direct projection to Amb and nXII, which has been experimentally determined in humans. Non-human primates have what is called a pro-motor (ProM) region (or laryngeal motor cortex) in the premotor cortex that makes an indirect projection to Amb, but unlike vocal learners this region is not required nor appears to influence vocalizations. For reviews, see Jurgens (2002) [6], Jarvis (2004) [2], Fitch et al (2010) [7], and Simonyan et al (2011) [65]. Abbreviations: Am or Amb, nucleus ambiguus Area X, a vocal nucleus (no abbreviation) ASt, anterior striatum AT, anterior thalamus DLM, dorsal lateral nucleus of the thalamus DM, dorsal medial nucleus of the midbrain FMC, face motor cortex H, hindbrain HVC, a vocal nucleus (no abbreviation) LMAN, lateral magnocellular nucleus of the anterior nidopallium M, midbrain, nXII, 12th motor nucleus PAG, periaqueductal gray PFC, prefrontal cortex ProM, promoter laryngeal cortex in non-human primates RA, robust nucleus of the arcopallium RF, reticular formation T, thalamus V, ventricle."
