Phylogenomic analyses revealed a complex series of indels that correlated with major events in the evolution of the inhibin α-subunit.A) Alignment of mature inhibin/activin proteins showing expanded sampling within the vertebrates for the α-subunit. The alignments were optimized based upon the highly conserved cysteine residues [97] and the highly conserved W-X-X-W motif and R-X-X-R proconvertase enzyme cleavage site (bold). N-terminal region and wrist region were highlighted with grey shade. B) Cladogram showing evolutionary relationships among animals with annotated genome sequences available using a topology based upon a consensus of recent analyses [93], [94], [95]. The two major clades of bilaterian animals (deuterostomes and protostomes) are highlighted. Numbers of proteins that exhibit clear homology to inhibin/activin queries in BLASTP searches are shown to the right, with the number of those proteins that have a human inhibin/activin α- or β-subunit as their top hit when used as a query in BLASTP searches of human proteins indicated in parentheses. Thus, numbers in parentheses reflect the number of proteins that are candidates for inhibin/activin α- or β-subunits using a bidirectional BLAST criterion. The likely origins of α- and β-subunits based upon the phylogenomic analyses reported here are indicated using the relevant Greek letters, and the timing of the whole genome duplications uniting vertebrates are indicated as “WGD”. The branch at the base of the tree is hatched because the position of the root is unclear [93], [94], [95]. C) Schematic of the ML estimates the phylogeny for inhibin/activin proteins, emphasizing the occurrence of indels in the mature protein region during the evolution of the gene family. Support for specific groups is indicated as the percentage of 100 bootstrap replicates, with only values ≥50% indicated. The starlet sea anemone (Nematostella) activin homolog is the sister of the lancelet (Branchiostoma) β-like protein and is indicated using a light line since it is probably placed incorrectly (note that bootstrap support is limited). The dashed arrow indicates the likely position of the sea anemone activin; this position is more likely because it minimizes the number of gene duplications and losses given the likely organismal phylogeny shown in B). A detailed version of this phylogeny is provided in Fig. S3."
