"pone.0003362.g004.png","Phylogenetic relationships among current major haplotypes and the association to expression phenotypes.Median-joining (MJ) network analysis was conducted using the Network program for HSD17B12 (Class I; shown in panel A) and BTN3A2 (Class II; shown in panel B). The major haplotypes in HapMap populations shown in Figure 2 and 3 were entered, using their population haplotype frequencies, along with the corresponding chimpanzee haplotype. The SNPs located at (C/T)pG positions on either strand (marked with stars in panel B of the previous figures) were generally excluded from this analysis because of their potentially high mutation rates. Each haplotype is represented by a circle. The area of each circle, except for the chimpanzee reference (colored yellow), reflects the observed frequency of each haplotype in the total dataset (YRI, CEU, CHB/JPT). The portion of YRI, CEU, and CHB/JPT chromosomes in each circle is denoted with green/red, white, and grey colors, respectively. The colors of haplotype frameworks A and B follow the green and red convention in previous figures. The length of lines between any two haplotype nodes is proportional to the number of mutation steps. The rs numbers of SNPs are labeled along the lines. The median vector (mv) is shown as a small circle and can be interpreted as possibly extant unsampled haplotypes. For each set of SNPs in strong LD (generally marking the branches in the lineage), a SNP with the most complete genotypes (underlined) was chosen for testing association. The nominal p-values for these SNPs in each major population, based on expression data sets GSE6536 (Illumina platform) and GSE2552/GSE5859 (Affymetrix platform), are shown in order. The coalescent-based maximum likelihood tree structure and the regression of expression phenotypes are plotted at the bottom of each panel. The set of SNPs in LD showing the strongest association with expression phenotypes is typed in red in the phylogenetic network and shown as red dots in the genealogical tree."
