Molecular organization, mode of membrane attachment and phylogenetic relationship of ZIP and prion gene families.A, Schematic drawing depicting the molecular organization of ZIPs 5, 6, 10 (only consensus features shown) and PrP. B, Comparison of orientation and membrane topology of mammalian prion family proteins, and a consensus ZIP5/6/10 molecule. C, Tree diagram depicting the human ZIP family of zinc metal ion transporters. The ZIP protein family in humans (and mice) consists of fourteen paralogs which can be grouped into four subfamilies based on sequence similarities (indicated by different background shading) [19]. Green shading indicates the sub-branch of paralog ZIP sequences most similar to prion family gene sequences. The right side of the panel compares the molecular organization of N-terminal domains within human ZIPs. Please note the divergence in lengths and molecular organization of N-terminal sequences which is contrasted by the presence of a relatively well-conserved cysteine-flanked core (present in 8 out of 14 paralogs) and highly conserved transmembrane domains. D, Simplified phylogenetic tree (modeled after [65]; arbitrary branch lengths) and table depicting the wide distribution of ZIP sequences in most organisms. Green shading indicates the phylogenetic branch of chordates with widespread existence of prion gene ortholog sequences in their genome. The paralog distribution was deduced from an ortholog alignment of 633 ZIP sequences published by the Sanger Institute (TreeFam release 7.0, http://www.treefam.org) or was determined by aligning representative ZIP protein sequences to genomic sequences (proteobacteria, archaea, Cnidaria and fish). The number of ZIP subfamily IV (LIV-1) paralogs containing a cysteine-flanked core (CFC) domain (indicated in brackets) was determined by inspection of sequences for the presence of cysteines that (i) flank a PALLY-like signature motif, and (ii) adhere to CFC consensus distance constraints derived from the multiple alignment of confirmed CFC domains: the cysteine-to-cysteine distance and the cysteine-to-transmembrane attachment site distance. Please note that ZIP proteins harboring CFC sequences N-terminal to their transmembrane domains can be found in organisms with relatively primitive body plans such as hydra (H. magnipapillata) or protostomia such as the fruitfly (D. melanogaster)."
