"pone.0017775.g001.png","The organization of the SERA gene family in 18 Plasmodium species. SERA genes are arrayed onto a solid horizontal line for each parasite species. Gene arrangement follows the genomic organization in each species. Individual SERA genes are clustered between a conserved hypothetical gene and the iron-sulfur assembly protein gene. Pfa-SERA9, Pre-SERA9 and PgaSERA3 have aberrant locations. SERA genes were categorized to Groups I to IV and Clades 1 to 6 reflecting orthologous gene groups as inferred from phylogenetic analyses shown in Figure 2 and Figure S3. SERA genes of Groups I to III (cysteine-type SERA gene) and those of Group IV (serine-type SERA gene) are shown in green and blue, respectively. TSERA denotes truncated SERA genes shown in yellow. SERA genes are drawn to scale, but other genes and intergenic regions are not. Dashed lines and/or dark gray boxes denote orthologous relationships. A generally accepted consensus phylogenetic tree of Plasmodium species is shown in right. The abbreviations for species names are: P. falciparum (Pfa), P. vivax (Pvi), P. malariae (Pma), P. ovale (Pov), P. reichenowi (Pre), P. gonderi (Pgo), P. fragile (Pfr), P. coatneyi (Pco), P. knowlesi (Pkn), P. inui (Pin), P. fieldi (Pfi), P. simiovale (Pso), P. cynomolgi (Pcy), P. hylobati (Phy), P. yoelii (Pyo), P. berghei (Pbe), P. chabaudi (Pch), and P. gallinaceum (Pga). The SERA gene family has common exon/intron structure: four exons and three introns, with some exceptions. Group I SERA genes have six exons and five introns structure, except for Pfa-SERA8 and Pvi-SERA12, which lack one intron. SERA genes of Group IV Clade 2 and Pma-SERA1 have no third intron and consist of three exons and two introns. Group I SERA genes of three rodent parasites have an extra intron near the 5′-end. Pkn-SERA1 gene in Clade 1 contains three stop codons, causing truncation of the cysteine-rich conserved domain; but since this gene was expressed, we consider this is a SERA gene. TSERA1 genes have truncations of the protease domain, variable domain 2 and cysteine-rich conserved domain. Pco-TSERA2, Pkn-TSERA2 and Pfr-TSERA2 lack a long amino acid region (498 residues) including the enzyme domain (Figure S4), of which Pfr-TSERA2 seems to be a putative pseudogene because its 2nd exon contains two stop codons."
